Hello and welcome to Unit testing for unity.
Here we're going to talk about Unity Cloud Build as a popular way to do continuous integration and continuous
deployment with unity.
So we've seen the tremendous benefits of unit testing and setting up an automated process for performing
those unit tests.
One of those popular options that you can use out there is Unity's Cloud build.
This is offered by unity themselves.
There's also plenty of third party or community based alternatives to what I'm about to show you.
Because cloud build is unity specific, built by unity, and it just works quite easily.
I'm going to focus on that here, but most of the steps that you're seeing here would be very similar
in setting up some competitive tools.
So Unity Cloud Build offers unity build automation.
Making quality games means having a CI CD pipeline that's ready for frequent testing and releasing.
Automate your build pipeline in the cloud and keep development moving with unity.
Build automation.
So in this video we'll go through the whole process.
But Unity Cloud Build is a web based software as a service.
It does cost, but there is a free beginning tier that we'll use for today.
Companies that have a lot of builds to do and want to minimize the wait time of their building would
be best suited with paid tiers for this service or finding an alternative.
Once you're using the Unity Cloud build, it's web based.
As I mentioned, you open up the build history and click build.
If you want to manually do a test, or you can schedule those builds, you could have them, for example,
happen only on your main branch, but happen every night at 1 a.m. and it will just automatically build
once a day at that.
You could also set up a trigger.
You could also set up triggers so that it builds automatically based on certain criteria, like when
code is committed from one branch to another, automatically run it.
So you've got some options there.
And once you kick off that build, either manually or automatically, you and all the members of your
team who want will receive an email confirming successful builds, failed builds, or whatever level
of info you want.
Let's see a demo of this in action.
Now I've already gone through and created a project, tested that it makes sure it works well with Unity
Cloud.
Build and finish that up.
I did some of that work so that I could understand how the system works.
And also to take some of the screenshots we've seen here in this presentation.
However, what I'm going to do is just start the process from scratch so you can see every step involved.
Now, I'm not going to create the project itself, but I'll do all of the automation on top of that.
So here's our unity project that already has the unit tests added and all the different example scenes.
It's the one project for this course and it's linked in the course resources section.
We can find that here on GitHub just to explore the page to confirm that it is indeed ready.
And I'll open it up inside unity.
Here we are in the project inside unity.
We can see up here in the Inspector.
We've got some links that we can click through to different areas of the project to get started seeing
some of the examples, as well as clicking through to the course and the sample project link itself.
We can also test that all the unit tests pass inside the test runner.
So let's do that.
You can see all 148 tests pass.
Something else that I want to do is go into the build settings, and if it's not already there, I want
to add in this keep this scene in Build Settings for Cloud Build, and I'll make sure to commit that
to the repo.
Now each of these build processes works quite differently.
Unity Cloud Build does want to build at least one scene in order for it to be considered a passing build
process.
So that's why it needs one scene in there.
And that scene is quite simple, quite empty.
It's just there to test very minimal functionality.
You could also have a more involved scene if you wanted, and have that be the one test that gets built,
but I'm assuming that my unit test coverage in edit mode and in play mode is doing that for me.
So I have a pretty empty test scene that I drag into there.
Here we see the Unity Hub opened up.
Typically we're logged in, but I've purposely logged myself out so I can create a brand new account.
If you've already created an account for use in unity, you can skip this step.
I'm just showing it to be complete.
There's nothing unique that you need to do here, specifically cloud building just yet.
So what I'll do here is I'll go to create an account.
Then once the most basic setup is complete, I'll then go to Cloud unity.com.
And this is where I need to do some additional configuration.
So that my project that I showed on GitHub gets built automatically.
Now I've already done these steps, but I'm going to do them again from scratch so we can see it all
here.
So I'm going to go to projects here in the sidebar and then click new to grab a new project.
I will call this unit testing for unity two because I already have one that I used.
Will this be targeted to children under 13?
No, it will not.
Okay.
So let's look at some of these details.
We've got the project name an icon a project ID the Google license key for in-app purchases is not there
yet.
This dashboard that we're seeing does all sorts of different features that unity offers from its services.
We don't need to do any of that stuff here.
All right.
Now that that project's been set up, we're going to go to dev ops here.
One of the things that we can do is build automation.
We'll go to the settings for build automation.
So here we are with build automation settings.
We can see some general info here.
Yep.
I'll go to the source control.
Source control has a dropdown, we can choose Git Hub.
Okay.
So this is telling us that we need to have a personal access token from git.
What we have to do is connect our Unity Cloud bill account here with our GitHub account.
This way the building process knows where our code lives and can listen in on certain events, like
when the code has been updated or merged, etcetera, in order to allow permission for Unity Cloud build.
We'll go into the settings here and we'll grab a personal access token from our GitHub.
So this says creates and provides your GitHub personal access token.
You'll need to select the repo read org scope.
So you'll need a GitHub account for wherever the repo is.
It doesn't need to be the repo that I've set up here.
You could run this on your own, but in order to get that personal access token, that is something
specific to your account.
Nothing to do with me as the instructor here.
So we can go here up to the profile and go down to settings.
Then down here on the side we go to Developer Settings.
Then under personal access tokens, we can go to classic.
I've already got one in there that I created recently.
This one is project read org and repo.
I'll generate a new token, so I'll give this a name.
It'll be Unity Cloud build token to.
I'll give it no expiration.
So here I'll choose repo.
I'll choose read, read and read on a few of these settings.
This may not be all required.
Perhaps you could do less.
But I'll do this.
Okay.
Then we copy the value from there.
We paste in the value and we authorize.
Choose my unit.
Testing for unity.
Now let's look at the configurations here.
We will do a quick target setup and we'll choose windows 64.
Now, if your end project is being played by users of particular target devices like Android, iOS,
etcetera, you may want to do builds for all of those early on.
Here we can see that we've got lots of different things to select.
Typically, there's the least friction in getting a windows build to work on a windows machine, so
I just choose that one.
Here.
We'll choose the branch we want to build.
Now here we see project subfolder path.
And this is optional.
But it says if your assets and project settings are not in the root folder of your repo, we recommend
entering the folder path.
Let's take a look at my project here.
Now here is the repo and my convention is that my unity project is always under a repo slash unity slash
assets, for example.
I find on larger projects that's always helpful to have that separation there.
So all projects of all scales do I start them out this way?
Inside that unity folder we can see the familiar assets, packages and project settings.
Now these three folders are immediately in your root.
You don't need any custom configuration, but if these three folders are not in your root, then you
need to address exactly where those come from.
So in my case it is just unity slash.
Then we can talk about the unity version.
Now, I find that automatically detecting the unity version probably a good idea so that it can build
one based on whichever latest version has been pushed into the repo.
However, I suspect it doesn't work for me because of my pathing, so I'm going to turn auto detect
off.
And I will say always use the latest 2022 because that's what my project is being built on and I will
use a Windows server here.
I'm not doing any builds to iOS or Android, so I don't need to take advantage of the additional configuration
there.
But the Xcode version for iOS stuff is here.
For example, you can skip a lot of that stuff as you're configuring.
Now as it continues the build configuration, it allows me to choose a more or less powerful computer.
I'm not looking to do any paid builds here.
This is not meant for a real use case, so I'm not going to think too deeply about that.
I'll just use the free tier eligible then I can choose here as one of my screenshots alluded to.
Automatically build or configure a repeating build schedule.
Mhm.
Let's say that I wanted to do automatically build when your repository is updated.
Then we're going to save that configuration.
Okay, we've got that there.
Now, continuing with the settings of the build automation, we can see that under caching we can have
no cache.
Cache, just the library or cache the entire project.
If we choose no cache, then each build will take more time, but it will have less chance for error
because it is not using any older cache files.
If I cache just the library directory, then the first build ever will not be benefited because it first
needs to build the project and cache it, but then every project build after it will be faster than
the first one because it is not needing to rebuild that every single time.
One of the dangers with doing this is that it could potentially be using some old files and giving a
bad result, but generally we just understand that risk as possible.
And what my approach would be is to cache the library directory.
And if you're ever unsure why the project is failing to build or why tests are passing in your local
unity editor, but they're not passing in the cloud build, then maybe I would turn off the cache in
that situation.
So here I'll just use cash.
Library.
Then here under build consumption.
Since these builds are part of a potentially pay as you go scenario.
Take a look at this info.
You want to add any sort of limits to how quickly your builds can build, to save you some real world
money.
Here in the build configurations, we can see that there's some options we want to look at for testing.
So if I scroll down here we see build output.
We see the caching section that we saw before, some specific dependency settings, script hooks and
more.
The important thing we want to reach here for our needs is running the tests.
We'll run the edit mode tests and the play mode test.
We want to mark the build failed if the test fails, so that we only push through and deliver code that
has passed all of our testing.
You may have a situation where you have a known test that fails.
You know why it fails and you plan to fix it.
So you may choose to have failing tests, not fail the whole build in those moments.
So having your configuration look like this is probably the best.
Now when I go to the Build history page here, it allows me to build locally and upload the build here
so that you could distribute it or have the continuous development or deployment rather take over.
Or you can do the build here automatically, which I think is probably much more likely the use case.
So remember I chose to automatically build any time the main branch gets updated.
So that would happen automatically.
I could have done an every night at 1 a.m. do an automatic build regardless of any changes.
You can always do that one.
So let's go ahead and do a build now.
And here we can see the results of a passing successful build.
Now typically you would get notified via email.
There's configuration settings here where you can do that.
So you can go about continuing your day without really thinking about what the build server is doing.
And only when you get an email confirming a failed test or a failed build do you react.
Over the course of a given week, you would expect most of the incoming traffic from that notification
system to be confirming that yes, another build worked and it worked well.
So just scrolling down here, we can see an overview of the full log, which is going to be helpful
if you have some issues.
You need to debug the compact log, which will show only the most relevant errors.
And there's more info as well.
You can see lots of different reporting about how it went and then regarding tests, you can see which
tests passed and if any did not pass, you'd be able to dig in and figure out how to make them work.
Well, a workflow if you do see a failing notification, what I would do is schedule time to open up
that particular build of the project.
Wherever in version control, it's sitting, perhaps merging together some code.
I would open that up locally, and then I would run the test from inside unity, being able to debug
them.
So that's it here for setting up Unity Cloud Build to automate a cloud build of your project, either
on a regular schedule triggered by particular events, or doing it manually within the dashboard.
Within all those scenarios, we get a nice history of all of our builds forever in the past.
So having this automated system set up, having hopefully mostly successful messaging coming your way,
gives you just enough info on when and where the code base is broken so that you can go in and you can
fix any issues.
That's it for setting up Unity Cloud Build.
Thanks.